README.md, before:

# sentiment-analyser
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sentimental-research/sentiment-analyser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sentimental-research/sentiment-analyser)

Prototype Java application that parses a CSV file of the form:

    userid , date , tweet , twitterId

The app then uses a Natural Language Processing algorithm to perform sentiment
analysis on the tweet portion of the CSV and outputs another CSV of the form:

    userid , date , tweet , twitterId , sentimentScore

## Building the application
You'll need Java 8 and Maven in order to build and run the command line application.
To build:
  - checkout the project;
  - go to the project root dir; and
  - invoke the Maven packager.

Command line instructions:

    git clone https://github.com/sentimental-research/sentiment-analyser.git
    cd sentiment-analyser
    mvn clean package

and to run / test the software:

    java -jar target/sentiment-analyser-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar src/test/resources/tweets.csv

## What this needs to do

 1. Read the tweets in from CSV using [opencsv](http://opencsv.sourceforge.net)
 2. Extract the content of the tweet from other metadata (ID, geolocation, username, etc.)
 3. Cleanup the tweet content using [twitter-text](https://github.com/twitter/twitter-text)
 4. Annotate the tweet content using [Stanford CoreNLP](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/CoreNLP) (annotation = single integer value containing the "positive-ness" of the sentiment conveyed by the tweet)
 5. Write out the CSV in the original format with an additional column containing the annotation (again using opencsv)

## Uses

 - [Stanford NLP Library](http://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/index.html)
 - [OpenCSV](http://opencsv.sourceforge.net/)
 - [twitter-text](https://github.com/twitter/twitter-text)

## Issues / Problems

 - There's not much variety in the sentiment scores given out by the Stanford library, range in testing 1-4
 - No checking of Tweet bias, e.g. release notices and the like written by the development team are often positive
 - Little variation in the score for neutral comments vs. unfavourable ones, they all get low scores
  - CSV parsing is over-simple, if there's a problem with a line it's just skipped

Commit message:

Added usage instructions and examples.

README.md, after:

# sentiment-analyser
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sentimental-research/sentiment-analyser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sentimental-research/sentiment-analyser)

Prototype Java application that parses a CSV file of the form:

    userid , date , tweet , twitterId

The app then uses a Natural Language Processing algorithm to perform sentiment
analysis on the tweet portion of the CSV and outputs another CSV of the form:

    userid , date , tweet , twitterId , sentimentScore

## Building the application
You'll need Java 8 and Maven in order to build and run the command line application.
To build:
  - checkout the project;
  - go to the project root dir; and
  - invoke the Maven packager.

Command line instructions:

    git clone https://github.com/sentimental-research/sentiment-analyser.git
    cd sentiment-analyser
    mvn clean package

and to run / test the software:

    java -jar target/sentiment-analyser-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar src/test/resources/tweets.csv

## Usage
The app will process the file found at the first arg location, or `stdin` when there
are no args. I will output the results to a file named by the second arg or output the
results to `stdout` if there is no second arg.

### Examples
Read `stdin` and output results to `stdout`:

    java -jar target/sentiment-analyser-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

Read file `~/tweets.csv` and output the results to `stdout`:

    java -jar target/sentiment-analyser-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar ~/tweets.csv

Read file `~/tweets.csv` and output the results to `~/results.csv`:

    java -jar target/sentiment-analyser-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar ~/tweets.csv ~/results.csv

## What this needs to do

 1. Read the tweets in from CSV using [opencsv](http://opencsv.sourceforge.net)
 2. Extract the content of the tweet from other metadata (ID, geolocation, username, etc.)
 3. Cleanup the tweet content using [twitter-text](https://github.com/twitter/twitter-text)
 4. Annotate the tweet content using [Stanford CoreNLP](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/CoreNLP) (annotation = single integer value containing the "positive-ness" of the sentiment conveyed by the tweet)
 5. Write out the CSV in the original format with an additional column containing the annotation (again using opencsv)

## Uses

 - [Stanford NLP Library](http://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/index.html)
 - [OpenCSV](http://opencsv.sourceforge.net/)
 - [twitter-text](https://github.com/twitter/twitter-text)

## Issues / Problems

 - There's not much variety in the sentiment scores given out by the Stanford library, range in testing 1-4
 - No checking of Tweet bias, e.g. release notices and the like written by the development team are often positive
 - Little variation in the score for neutral comments vs. unfavourable ones, they all get low scores
  - CSV parsing is over-simple, if there's a problem with a line it's just skipped
